engine: 29.5.0 (#25020)
docker/docker.github.io: content/manuals/engine/release-notes/29.md

- Deprecated and removed features, see [Deprecated Engine Features](../deprecated.md).
- Changes to the Engine API, see [Engine API version history](/reference/api/engine/version-history/).

## 29.5.0-rc.1

> {{< release-date date="2026-05-11" >}}

Reviewer: 📝 tbd?

For a full list of pull requests and changes in this release, refer to the relevant GitHub milestones:

- [docker/cli, 29.5.0 milestone](https://github.com/docker/cli/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A29.5.0)
- [moby/moby, 29.5.0 milestone](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A29.5.0)

### New

- Enable private time namespace for containers by default on supported kernels. [moby/moby#52326](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52326)

> - The `local` logging-driver now has support for custom attributes, adding support for the `label`, `label-regex`, `env`, `env-regex`, and `tag` log-options. [moby/moby#52348](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52348)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `local` logging driver now has support for custom attributes, adding support for the `label`, `label-regex`, `env`, `env-regex`, and `tag` log options. [moby/moby#52348](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52348)
```

- Windows: The daemon now supports listening on a Unix socket (`-H unix://...`), with optional group-based access control via `--group`. [moby/moby#52365](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52365)

### Security

- CVE-2026-32288: Fix a denial of service where pulling a maliciously crafted image could cause the daemon to allocate unbounded memory when processing sparse tar archives. [GHSA-x4jj-h2v8-hqqv](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-x4jj-h2v8-hqqv). [moby/moby#52478](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52478)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

> - Add "time-namespaces" feature-flag to disable time-namespaces. [moby/moby#52577](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52577)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add "time-namespaces" feature flag to disable time-namespaces. [moby/moby#52577](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52577)
```

- Daemon reload events now signify that the daemon reload has fully completed. [moby/moby#52589](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52589)
- Expose diagnostic data about userland proxy in `docker info`. [moby/moby#52321](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52321)
- Fix `docker image ls --filter reference=...` (`GET /images/json`) to also match fully qualified canonical image names (e.g. `docker.io/library/alpine`), not only the familiar short form. [moby/moby#52333](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52333)
- Fix a bug where leaving an autolock-enabled swarm could leave orphaned state, causing subsequent swarm init to fail with "Swarm is encrypted and needs to be unlocked". [moby/moby#52479](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52479)

> - Fix an issue where logging errors logged to the daemon log show an empty string instead of the log message that failed to be logged. [moby/moby#52442](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52442)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue where logging errors appeared as empty strings in the daemon log instead of the message that failed to write. [moby/moby#52442](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52442)
```

- Fix incorrect SHARED SIZE and UNIQUE SIZE reporting in `docker system df -v` by including shared content blobs in size calculation. [moby/moby#52482](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52482)
- Fix volume subpath file mounts over an existing file in the image failing container creation with "not a directory". [moby/moby#52584](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52584)
- Sort labels in `volume`, `network`, `config`, and `secret` formatters for deterministic output. [docker/cli#6954](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/6954)
- Swarm: Prevent corruption of Raft snapshots when swarm state is large. [moby/moby#52441](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52441)

### Packaging updates

> - Update BuildKit to [v0.30.0-rc1](https://github.com/moby/buildkit/releases/tag/v0.30.0-rc1). [moby/moby#52559](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52559)

Reviewer: i see there's a pr for rc2 but I assume this will get updated later?
https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/52606

Author: Yes this will be a GA in the final release
